Create rule S7473: Use unnamed variable in pattern matching (#4919)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S7473/java/rule.adoc

A variable occurring in pattern matching is unused.

== Why is this an issue?

> This may seem harmless, but could lead to confusion and potential errors in your code.

Reviewer: We can be a little bit more verbose and specific here, what about:
```suggestion
Unused variables in pattern matching can cause confusion and make the code harder to understand. They may also lead to potential errors.
For example, if a variable is declared but not used, it may be mistakenly assumed that it has some significance in the code. This can lead to misunderstandings and make the code less readable.
```

[source,java,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
public void foo(Ball ball){
 switch (ball) {
   case RedBall   red   -> process(ball);    // Noncompliant, Use _ instead
   case BlueBall  blue  -> process(ball);    // Noncompliant, Use _ instead
   case GreenBall green -> stopProcessing(); // Noncompliant, Use _ instead
 }
 if (r instanceof ColoredPoint(Point(int x, int y), Color c)) { // Noncompliant, Use _ instead
   System.out.println("x: " + x);
  }
}
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,java,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
public void foo(Ball ball){
 switch (ball) {
   case RedBall   _    -> process(ball);      // Compliant, unused variable has been replaced with _
   case BlueBall  blue -> processColor(blue); // Compliant, variable blue is used
   case GreenBall _    -> stopProcessing();   // Compliant
 }
 if (r instanceof ColoredPoint(Point(int x, _), _)) {  // Compliant, no unused named variables
   System.out.println("x: " + x);
  }
}
----

== Resources

* https://openjdk.org/jeps/456[JEP 456: Unnamed Variables & Patterns]
* https://openjdk.org/jeps/361[JEP 361: Switch Expressions]
* https://openjdk.org/jeps/394[JEP 394: Pattern Matching for instanceof]

> * https://openjdk.org/jeps/440[JEP 440: Record Patterns]

Reviewer: I am not sure if it's valuable here to mention the documentation of switch expressions, pattern matching and records as the rule is not specific to those topics
